# Analysis Scripts: (f) Characterization of conserved versus rearranged genomic regions


This repository contains the scripts used to perform the analysis for the section **"(f) Characterization of conserved versus rearranged genomic regions** of the article.

## Inputs
To run these scripts, you will need :
- Clean genome assemblies of both genomes (.fasta)
- tsv file with gc (.gc.tsv) content per 100 kb window
- Synteny hits(.synHits.txt) output from GENESPSACE 
- GFF3 file (gff3) generated by **Braker** for both genomes.
- Synteny hits(.synHits.txt) output from GENESPSACE 
- GFF file(.fasta.out.gff) obtained from **RepeatMasker** output
- GFF3 file obatined from **DANTE** annotation tool available from the RepeatExplorer2 Galaxy portal (https://repeatexplorer-elixir.cerit-sc.cz/)
- GFF3 file obatined from **DANTE_LTR** annotation tool available from the RepeatExplorer2 Galaxy portal (https://repeatexplorer-elixir.cerit-sc.cz/)
- GFF3 file obatined from **TAREAN** annotation tool available from the RepeatExplorer2 Galaxy portal (https://repeatexplorer-elixir.cerit-sc.cz/)

#### Usage
These scripts are designed to be executed on **R**. Each R script is for independent analysis. However I recommend running window_characterization.R or enrichment_analysis.R as they both include the part where the table is generated. 
- `window_analisis.R`: Performs Generalized Linear Models.
- `enrichment_analysis.R`. Performs permutation enrichment tests. 
- `violin_graph.R` Creates the violin graphs. These graph was futher edited with InkScape for the article.
- `genome_features_1JMC18.R` and `genome_features_4JMC19C.R` performs supplementary figures S2 and S3 representing egnomic features along chromosomes (all and only rearranged chromosomes.
